This week, I’ve started a new series of Android-based home screen setups titled MonetSetups.<br>
Thanks for checking out MonetSetups! MonetSetups are created using the (pre-Material You) Codename Monet feature from Android 12, which takes your wallpaper, and extracts an accent color that applies systemwide. This includes apps, icons, widgets, and more.<br>
Every element of these setups are custom made to fit the color(s) of the wallpaper. This makes the setup feel alive and personal, rather than just being a static black or white color.<br><br>
The very first MonetSetup is using a beautiful, Sky Bluish theme to colorize the home screen. This wallpaper was selected as the base, as I wanted to use these colors for the first MonetSetup.<br>
We start off with the widget(s) at the top, which is a custom KWGT widget that uses the widget style from Android 12 as a base. The At-A-Glance widget uses colors from the wallpaper for the text, and the music player uses the same colors sampled from the icons below.<br>
Next, you’ll notice that the first 3 icons on the top row have little indicator badges on them. Those are folders, and they are custom made icons designed specifically with folders in mind. The icon itself represents the app that opens when you tap it, since swiping up will open the folder. The badge indicates what the folder contains.<br>
The icons themselves are custom made, and although they weren’t easy to create, they did make the setup feel more realistic, and even paves the way for future setups, since all I’ll have to do is change the color or colors.<br>
Following the icons, we have another widget at the bottom of the screen. (Note: Some variants of the image show a Microphone icon on the right, and some show the Google Assistant icon. This depends on the image you’re viewing, but almost everything else is identical.)<br>
This is the Google Search widget, and it was also created in KWGT using the same colors from the widget above. It performs the same actions as the official searchbox widget, but is now properly sized to match the icons, as well as colored to match the theme.<br><br>
Check out my Twitter post on this setup to view a live video of it working, which includes even more elements not pictured here!